Joe Rogan podcast. Check it out. The Joe Rogan Experience. Train by day. Joe Rogan podcast by
night. All day. Hey Bradley Cooper, what's happening
baby? You know what it's like when uh like a Twilight Zone episode or something where like you're watching the
This is an episode where like I'm watching the TV and all of a sudden you're inside and you're looking at me and I got the Yeah.
All a sudden I'm inside the show. It's crazy. It's weird for me, too. It's It's weird for me that it gets weird for
other people, too. Like, when I see people being weird about it, I'm like, it's okay. I feel comfortable, just so you know.
Oh, good. You look comfortable. Yeah. No, no, it's excitement. It's weird for me. Like, I was trying to explain this to someone. They'll they'll
like, do people have a hard time being comfortable on the show? I go, I kind of do, too. It's [ __ ] weird. Yeah.
It's weird that that many people are watching. Yes. And then you start thinking like, oh, don't [ __ ] it up. Don't say that.
Right. But if you think about it, the fact that you did this long form setup and that we
live in a culture where people t at least say that every it's all about short-term Yeah.
goes against it. The people are interested. Yeah. Well, the short-term
stuff does work, you know, like short attention span stuff is very popular even with me like but I have been
resisting it more and more lately. I'm like like a [ __ ] heroin addict. Like slowly weaning myself off the drug. And
the more I wean myself, the better I feel like physically better. My brain
works better. I feel more relaxed. I don't feel like this kind like Sugashan
Ali the UFC fighter. He said even when I'm just scrolling, even if he goes, even if it's not anything about me, he
goes there's just like a lowlevel anxiety that I get. I'm like, "Yeah, yeah." Because like, you know, you're
wasting your time chasing a fix that you're never going to get and you're just like getting these these short
drips of like, "Oh, look at that. Oh, look at that. Oh, scroll scroll scroll scroll." But that's not what people
really want. What people really want is something engaging, something you go, "Wow, that's like" Like a great
documentary like which are still super popular. like a great documentary. They're still, you know, like huge on
Netflix and huge on YouTube. So, and Oenheimer was like three hours long.
Make a billion dollars. So, people went Humans didn't change. It's just you can hijack their reward system by giving
them some short attention span nonsense and it just like tricks their slow drip dopamine into like continuing to watch
this stupid [ __ ] But that's not what they want. No. You know, it's not what I want, you know?
No. It's a difference between like Yeah. Just a little drip of something that has the illusion that I'm getting what I
want as opposed to what I actually need. Yes. Which is sort of a reminder that I exist.
Yes. Yes. And that I'm communicating with somebody and I can relate to it. Yes.
Which is a different thing. And I only know this because I've never been on social media, but sometimes there was one time I got on somehow got on TikTok
and it was all police footage. You know, like uh and I was just I remember laying on my couch. 40 minutes
went by and I was just doing this and there was like the first part of the video and then what happened and then like the second part part two and that
was the only time I experienced I thought I gotta stay away from this because I won't leave the house. It's bad. It's bad for you too because
it programs you to think that that is going on everywhere in the world. Like if you have eight billion people that
are interacting with people all over the world and you only take the worst
examples of that and broadcast it and then it becomes viral and millions and millions of people think it rewires your
way you think about human beings. But the and the other thing is about memory. Someone was talking about
Niagara Falls the other day and I thought I've been there, right? And then I'm like, have I been there
or did I see a video like or was or was that one of the things when I put the
Oculus on, right? Honestly, I can't remember, but I know what it feels like to be looking at it.
Oh, yeah. So, the it's it's it's it's changing the way memory works
100%. Yeah. I've um come I've hit a wall in my memory like a tangible wall because and
I think it's connected to like Dunar's number like Dunar's number is the amount of people that you can keep in your head
like because we evolved in these tribal scenarios we we evolved with like 150
people and so the way Dunar uh calculated it there's like very close
intimate close circle people which is a small amount and then immediately after
that there's a slightly larger amount and then it gets up to what was it like it gets up to like a thousand people 1500 people
1500 people that's the most amount of people you can keep in your head. So there's like five people that like your tightest of tight and then 15 like
slightly outside of that and it gets all the way up to about 1500 people recognizable people
but I would think I'd be able to that you could keep in your head. Yeah. But I'm way past 1500 people so
I'm [ __ ] Right. Like I am like there's people that I know really well and then I see
them and I'm like I don't remember his name. 1500 sounds and it it seems bad. Like I'm like why
can't I remember his [ __ ] name? I'm horrible. I'm horrible with names. But it's just because my hard drive
sucks. It's like I don't have enough room, right? It's like you know when you the old iPhones it was like you've run out of
you know Mac space. Like ah jeez I got to start deleting photos and videos. Do you get anxiety with that or do you
sort of breathe through and say well it's just the way it is? I kind of just deal with it. I mean, it is what it is.
But but my memory itself is like very good and also very bad at the same time.
Yeah, me too. I I have a serious problem remembering people's names. Well, you think about how many people like as I was saying it, I was like and
I've watched the show so many times. I was like, Jamie, right, that's Jamie. Like as you were saying, like who can I do I remember any of the guys I just
met? I can't tell you one. I just met them. Shook their hand, looked them in their eye. They say their names and it just goes in and out and some people get upset.
What's my name? I don't [ __ ] know. Oh, you don't remember me? You don't? You know, I'm like, "Wait, you don't
remember?" No. What's my name? And you're like, "Well, that's why in Hollywood people love to
say, "Good to see you." Instead of, "Nice to meet you." Like, "Bitch, you met me two years ago." Like,
I don't remember. Yeah. Leonard Bernstein had a great thing that he would always I loved you in the last thing you did.
That's funny. That's funny. Speaking of which, I watched your movie um Is This Thing On? And it's good. It's really
good, man. It's it's one of the best representations of someone attempting to do standup,
you know. It's like it's a really good film. And you know, but it's not really just about standup. It's it's about these
people with these it's about they're they're actual human beings. Like these are complicated real like not
caricaturish, not cartoonish people like like I get that these are real people, right? Good. complicated real people
that are trying to figure out their relationships in the context of this one guy Will Arnett is attempting to do
standup. Right. So it was great. I'm glad you say that. Like so you because you know I moved to New York in
um 97 and and then that was my introduction to
any comedy world other than with my dad. I used to watch Ronnie Dangerfield's you know uh New Year's Eve special. We used
to watch it every year, you know, and it was Elaine Booler and Sam Kenisonson and and Dice and, you know,
Ela Boozler. I forgot about her. I'm pretty sure she was on there. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And um and I was obsessed with Dice when
I was like in eighth grade. I memorized one of his records and I would do it in the train station with all my friends
cuz back then that's all you did, right? You would memorize stuff. Oh, yeah. Yeah. There was no video to look at, you know. You wouldn't all sit around. You
would just memorize and then, you know, regail your friends with your impersonation of them. And then um and
Richard Prior was my hero hero growing up. That was my idol. So I had this thing with standup comedy. Then I moved
to New York and I'm all of a sudden immersed with these clubs and and Upright Citizens Brigade had just
started and I did this movie What Hot American Summer and all there was all these people. I didn't didn't even know about the state. Remember that show on
MTV? There was this all this and so I just you know little by little
immersed myself into that world and I just became fascinated with the culture. And then Zack Elephanakis, who I met
like in 2001, way before Hangover, I used to go and watch him do stuff. And I
just love the culture. And when Will was telling me about this, I was like, "Oh, let's set it in New York and the seller
because I just love the the geography of the seller, too, that you go in the olive tree and you walk down into this place. It's this whole other world." And
um and it just felt like, yeah, I really want like can I can we pull this off where it's authentic, where you watching
it at home and you get a sense. So the fact that you're saying that, you know, you feel like it got it, you know,
within the striking distance makes me really happy. Yeah, it's striking distance. It's like the one of the only films or like
Punchline was an interesting film. The Tom Hanks Sally Fields comedy, but it
was [ __ ] Like you watch it like what? They have lockers. Like what the [ __ ] is this? Like And also the comedy wasn't good. It
wasn't real comedy. It was like it felt flat and fake and people were laughing at nothing. The Will stuff felt real. Yeah,
it felt real, you know, like the clubs felt with the like a guy trying to work out what it's like to be on stage and
open mic and then the fact you got Jordan Jensen in who I love. She's [ __ ] great. I texted her afterwards. I'm like,
isn't she great in the movie, she's great. Yeah, she I mean, the minute I started shooting her and I was like, "Oh, wait a
second." Yeah. Yeah. It was like And the first thing I shot with her was one of her uh
one of her sets and I was just up there with the camera and I came around in her profile and actually I felt like I was in the Stars. She looked a lot like Gaga
and Ally, like singing Shallow. Oh wow. I had like this weird moment. I was like, "Whoa." Um, and then she was just incredible.
And then then as it went on, she had a larger part of the movie and then that whole thing when they're talking about
the small penis and we go up to her and just her writing that down and she was just so fluid and I was like, "Oh yeah,
she's got it, man. She's got it." She's great. She's really great. She's a really unique person. Like a very
unusual per like even just talking to her on podcast. Grew up on a farm with two moms and Yeah. Yeah. Amazing. Yeah, she could do
anything. I know. And she's so fun. She's fun on stage, too. Like she's great like working the crowds. Oh, very smart.
Very smart. But like her character, like the way she interacts, I'm like, "Oh, that's so
realistic. Like we should [ __ ] like that." Yeah. Exa. Exactly. And then you go back to the like East Village or
Chinatown apartment, you know, they live in. It's all one room. Yeah. I believe it. Yeah. Me, too.
It was great. It's it's like, you know, you're never gonna really capture standup in a movie because it's like to
capture what it is, you would need like years. And also, you would need a movie dedicated to it. Exactly.
The movie's not dedicated to it. Do you know what I mean? It was just about can I can I make you feel like you're there?
W that you're with him on stage. Yes. That what that could be like. Yeah. You know, the the silence and then the
cameras boom, there's nowhere to go. How did you work out the standup scenes?
Did you have real audiences? And then just real audiences because um you you
have to hit the quota of extras with SAG and all that. But but we we try to do it as authentic as possible, which was
everybody that works at the seller, they're there in the movie, everybody who agreed to do it. So all the waiters
and everything, the staff, that's all people that work there. Um Liz, who's the manager, who plays the manager,
she's the manager of the seller. So all those people are real. But then the patrons we I can't remember what the
email was or what the the the the ask was but like people who like to go to standup comedy who go who go regularly
and then once they were there I never told them what was going to happen. I never directed them once. It was like whatever the they're laughing at that's
it. And I don't do many takes so you're getting an authentic reaction. Now it's hyped up because there's cameras there
and it's a movie but they're not told what to do. It feels like that. And so, and even in
the mix, like we never added anything. There was no added laugh, nothing. Oh, that's great. Yeah. Yeah. It's all because I was like,
it's just got to be real because I wanted Will to just, you know, I just don't want him to act, right? I just want him to And that's why, you know,
you Shane Gillis was kind enough. The first time everyone went up was here at the mothership. Shane gave him four minutes of his set
and he and I and Will and I flew to Austin and we're sitting in the green room and Shane was like an hour and a
half late and Tony was there and he was so nice. I'd never met Tony before and that's where I smelled the thing. You
know, I did the smell. [ __ ] me. That [ __ ] is no joke, dude.
Yeah. Um and and that was the first time Will ever went up and we he was just trying some of that material and went up
as Alex Novak cuz I was like, when do you have an opportunity as an actor to actually do the thing you're preparing
to do? Like you and like think about how much that would cost. Like you can go into a room where there's real people.
It's all and then every step that you're taking you're in a club. So he did that and then when we back went back to New
York he did it like three times a week, four or five times a night for like six weeks. Wow.
Just so he could understand what it's like. And some people didn't know who he was. You know, you get a lot of tourists come in to New York City and there were
nights where you knew that he when he said Alex Novak, they're like cool,
right? Not like you're not Alex Novak, right? You know, like okay, let's see what you got. And uh so that was really that was
really great. How did you Who wrote this film? uh he wrote it with this guy Mark Chapel. It
was uh it was a movie that was more about his uh based on this guy John Bishop who's a real comedian is a very
successful comedian in the UK and and he will met that guy on a barge somewhere
and and he was at talking about his story and he was like yeah I was in was doing something else my wife and I were
breaking up and I walked into a bar a pub one night I didn't want to pay the cover that really happened to this guy so he put his name down and they called
him and then he was like yeah I'm getting a divorce and got a couple chuckles but he just loved it. Never
done comedy, nothing before that. And he kept going back and he like was obsessed by it. And then like weeks later, his
wife, a strange wife, walked into a place he was doing an open mic at with her girlfriends and he was doing a set
about their relationship. So that actually happened. Wow. I know. And then they got back together and they're still together. And then now
he like he tours around the world like he's makes a living as a comedian. That's incredible. Yeah. So when he was telling me that I
was doing another movie and I remember I was like, "What are you working on?" cuz we've been friends for for like 25 years. And um and he was telling me that
and I was like I just imagine Will because I know him so well and he's so charismatic and funny and just has this
presence that that is kind of lacking. I don't feel like there's like a male archetype now that fits him. He's like
he's like Robert Mitchum. He reminds me like a young Robert Mitchum Willeret. And he was telling me that I'm like his
voice and like that face stand up con like I just couldn't get it out of my head Joe. And I was like hey man can can
I read it like how far along are you guys? And I read it and I was like I didn't quite because like you I had never seen a movie that I thought nailed
it and I love standup comedy so much. I was like and I have no desire to try to redo it. And also comedy is so massive
right now and and the specials are so great and cinematic right now that there's no reason to try to make a
fictional movie about something that we can watch as a documentary or a docu series or a show that is authentic. I
was like so but I still would really love to capture it cinematically. So, what if it's a foil and the movie's
about the two of them? Cuz that's interesting. Yes. And you suck.
Well, that was the one of the great scenes where Jordan was like, "You're bad." You're bad. You're really bad.
And it's much more about just what what standup comedy anything. And you talk about this on your show, doing anything
that puts you out of your comfort zone. Yeah. Anything that pushes you, you're going to you're going to improve as a human
being. That was really what that that whole thing is about. And I just love the culture and the world. And I thought
there's so much tangible stuff there for me to get excited about cinematically and story-wise. But really, it's like it
could have been anything. Yeah. just something that he had never done that had he puts himself out there and that
in doing it and doing it he just sort of gets more comfortable, you know, and then the mic comes off the stand and then he's leaning against the wall and
by the end of it and then the way it was structured, it allows him to do that
vampire set at the end of the movie where all he's doing is exercising what
he's feeling emotionally because he's comfortable in this setting. Yeah. Because the old him when he has
that fight with her in the attic, he just would have kept that all inside and he would have been canatonic at his
kids assembly where we meet him in the beginning of the movie because you just don't know what to do with all that. But if you have an
outlet, something expressive. Yes. You can you can you know exercise it in
a healthy way. Yeah. So that that's what that that's that really was the point of that whole part
of it being standup comedy and open mic. What you really nailed is someone trying it for the first time. You you guys
really nailed that. You really nailed a beginner in comedy. Like it seemed
completely realistic. Great. Yeah. And like I think that's one of the reasons why Kill Tony is so popular.
Yes. You know, cuz you get to see like you can't that that raw reality of someone
who has never done standup before. Like there was people that went up at Madison Square Garden in front of 16,000 people
that had never done standup before. Dude, dude. No, no, no. That's just Who knows?
Don't do that. You should be in a [ __ ] smoky room. Well, not smokey anymore, but a tiny
[ __ ] room where of disinterested people, where everyone's bombing and you bomb to it, it's not that big a deal cuz
you might have some potential, but if you [ __ ] bomb in front of 16,000 people, the pain of that, you may
never recover. Also, just think about the a like because you're going to hear your voice through the, you know, echoing. It's It
can't be just an like So there I imagine there's an echo. So you're not only bombing, but you're hearing it
reverberate. You don't really feel the echo. You don't hear the echo cuz you you have monitors on stage, so it's coming to you
pretty flat. Okay. But the noise of your voice where you've
never heard your voice into a microphone before, ever. And now you're in front of 16,000 people
doing it and then Tonyy's sitting there looking at you and Shane's there and I'm there. It's like a nightmare. It's like you're
you're walking into a nightmare. Well, but just doing standup in front of like a guy like Shane Gillis is crazy. He's
sitting right next to you. You've never done standup. You're going to do standup right next to a guy who's selling out arenas. Like, that's nuts. That feeling
is nuts. But it's wonderful to watch cuz you're watching authentic reactions happening in real time.
Yes. Okay. If your New Year's resolution was change everything and be a new person, good luck. So, instead of
pretending you're going to meal prep kale forever or do morning cold plunges,
here's one actually realistic thing. AG1. AG1 is a daily health drink that
supports your energy, gut health, immune health, and helps fill common nutrient
gaps. Just one scoop in cold water each morning and you're off. It's got over 75
vitamins, minerals, probiotics, and whole food ingredients in there. So instead of guessing whether you need a
probiotic or a prebiotic or sorting through 10 different bottles of pills and powders, you can just do one scoop
and get on with your day. It's great because it feels like the grown-up move, but for once it's actually really easy.
It takes like 30 seconds and you'll notice the steadiness that sets you up for the day. Not wired, not crashing,
just functional human being energy. I've partnered with AG1 for years and if you
want to give it a try, head to drink AG1.com/jo. And for a limited time, you'll get a
free AG1 duffel bag and free AG1 welcome kit with your first AG1 subscription
order. Only while supplies last. That's drinkagg.com/joen
or visit the link in the description to get started. It's not processed. It's
it's as as clean a mental food as you're going to get. Yeah, it's true. Yeah.
It's just that we I think human beings really love seeing what it's like when
someone starts out doing something because a lot of people have these ideas like ah maybe I could try that or maybe
I could learn how to play guitar or maybe I could do that. But it's just the getting going and sucking at something
in the beginning is terrifying for people. So when they see someone just try it, I think they're like, "Oh, look
at him go. Look at him go. He's out there doing it. He's on the bike. He's moving." You know, it's like you see
actual people that are trying to do something that they've never done before. And it's exciting.
And also the the the one thing I wanted to touch on is the craft of it all. You know, that it's that it takes a lot of
work. I know that it's not, you know, just, you know, the writing, you know, when she says that one point she's like, "You gotta write,
you know, and keep going up." up and I think most people at least I didn't know before I started going that people go up
three or four times a night like I didn't and so that was something I thought it was important to convey
just the work ethic that's needed. Well, New York is really great for that and it's always had a culture of that.
It's had a culture of guys hopping from club to club and doing set to set because there's so many clubs in in
Manhattan. So guys would just, you know, uh I think the most guy I ever heard one
guy did eight eight or nine sets a night. Like they just like that's how many clubs there are. So you just hop all
over the place. You start your night at like 8:00 p.m. Yeah. Downtown there's a ton downtown then you can go up. Yeah.
You go all over the place. It's um we've got a lot of that here now because there's so many clubs in Austin
now. I mean we went there. What you built is incredible. Thank you. Culture, everything. You know, I showed
the movie to a stand-up who hadn't done standup in like 15 years, and he said, "The only thing that for sure you got
wrong is the culture." And I was like, "What do you mean?" He's like, "No, people aren't that nice." And I was like, "Actually, I think you're wrong."
I was like, "It's changed." I was like, "People are supportive now." It's in where you go. There's places
where it's not very supportive really. But at least like I used to go to the seller like in early 2000s. Didn't feel like it does now.
Right. Well, I think Ari Shafir changed that a lot. He brought like the culture of LA to New York
where you're like more supportive of each other. It was always like dog against dog because it really the way it
all started out was in the 1990s it was all about everyone was
auditioning for a sitcom and if you and I were if I showed up to audition for a
sitcom like oh [ __ ] Bradley's here he's going for the same part. [ __ ] that guy. You know it was cuz it was like that
could change your life if you got that sitcom. Now all of a sudden you're [ __ ] huge and I'm still like
struggling to pay my rent eating ramen and it could have been me, right? And so there's this like serious resentment
that happens in the 1990s because everybody like the the golden carrot at the end of the stick was the Tonight
Show or you know hosting a late if you could get your own late night show. Oh my god, he made it. He's a host of the
Tonight Show. That was like the thing that only one person could get. And then there was like the sitcom like if it
really worked out they'd make a sitcom around you and you'd get a development deal. So there was people would
psychologically backstab people. People would talk [ __ ] to people before they went on stage. They would try to hijack
their [ __ ] mind right before like really it was dark crazy. And then the internet came around. And
then the internet instead of people being your competitors, they became not just your friends and not just your
colleagues, but also an asset. Because if you're doing a podcast and you've got
uh your funny friends on, then your podcast is better, right? And then if you tell people about their podcast,
then their podcast is better. And then you go on their podcast and that's better. And everybody benefits from
everybody else doing well. So it beca it completely reversed the system. And then
it became much more about being supportive of each other. And then everybody kind of realized like, hey,
it's way more fun when we're all having fun, you know? And since the television
thing kind of died off, the sitcom thing kind of died off with reality shows. And
then it was really just more about getting clips up on the internet and about getting and then there was Netflix
specials. So it wasn't just everybody trying to get an HBO special. There was way more specials and then you could just upload specials to YouTube and it
became this way more collaborative, supportive environment. And then Ari Shafir took
that that we had kind of like established in LA and brought that to New York and a lot of those guys ran
with it. Yeah. I mean that's the way to go. People always say, you know, there's a lot of room at the top. Yeah. There's a lot
there's a lot of room in standup for sure. You know, and it's like and everybody has their own lane even within this big highway and and everybody wants to be
with other people. Who wants to be a lone wolf really for a long period? Yeah, there's a few. There's a few out
there, but they're all psychologically destroyed. They're just a mess. Yeah. Who doesn't want to have friends? It's
crazy. Yeah. I don't get it. But, you know, it's that aspect of the culture I felt like in the
movie you guys nailed, which is a realistic aspect, a realistic portrayal of what it's like
where a bunch of people just they were all busting each other's balls. Oh, yeah. Yeah. You could be supportive and still honest. That was the thing.
There's no lack of honesty or criticism. It's just it's not done with the hope that you your demi for your demise.
Yes. That's the difference. Yeah. I think the '9s like poisoned a lot of comedians. It poisoned them
because it gave you this idea that the whole thing was about a means to an end.
And that end was a sitcom and everybody thought you just had to get a sitcom. You got to get a sitcom and that was
what everybody was working towards. There's people that were developing their entire act based around a around a
persona that they could sell to the networks. Were you doing standup before uh your sitcom?
Yes. I see. Okay. Okay. So, is that how that happened? Did someone see you and then they were like, "Oh, you got to you got
to try this show." Yeah, I got I got ridiculously lucky. Like, you know, a lot of people say,
"Oh, I work really hard to get on a sitcom." Nope. No. I got lucky. I did the MTV. I never had any aspirations to
act at all. I did MTV half hour comedy hour. I got a development deal and all of a sudden I'm in living in LA and I'm
on a sitcom and it happened in a couple. Had a great sitcom. I was on a bad one first. I was on a bad
one called Hard Ball. It was a sitcom on Fox where I played a baseball player.
That show got cancelled and unfortunately I thought it was going to go because I was [ __ ] I was, you
know, 25 years old, 26 years old and I was like, "Oh, this is going to take
off. I should get an apartment." So, I had a lease on an apartment and I wanted Everybody, I'm sure people were telling you that it was going to take off, too.
Oh, yeah. Everybody believed it. Yeah. You're going to win an Emmy. Well, the guys who made it, uh, Jeff Martin and Kevin Curran, they worked on
The Simpsons. They worked on Married with Children. They were really good. Wow. But then the Fox people came in and just ruined it. Like the executives came in
and they brought in a bunch of hacks and just ruined the show. Did you have fun doing it? Oh yeah, I had a I had a kind of good
time, but I also missed comedy and I missed New York people and I wanted to
get out of there. I was like, I got to get back to New York. [ __ ] this place. As soon as it was over, but I was like, [ __ ] I got this lease. So I had a lease
for a year and then I got a development. How long were you in LA at that time? Oh, I was only in LA for like a few
months. Wow. Yeah. So, I moved out there to do the show, right? I I got a lease like almost immediately
and then I was out there for a few months. Show got cancelled and then um I got a development deal to
do something for NBC and they were going to do my own sitcom and but as we were
developing it, they said, "Hey, there's a show that we're doing. It's called News Radio. It's already been picked up.
We already did the pilot. Uh, but we fired one pe one person from the pilot and we want you to read for this and
that's how I got on news radio. That's how it happened. Like that was this only the second show I ever auditioned for ever.
Wow. So I had one show went on air and got cancelled. You had a very unique track. Dumb luck. That's nuts.
Stumbled into it 100%. I can't take any credit for it. Dumb luck. Amazing. Just my ability to keep it together in
auditions and not not crack with no acting experience at all. But it was just not it wasn't something that I
aspired to. So it it didn't have the kind of pressure that it probably had for a lot of people. It probably didn't have the same kind of
elation too, right? Like you pro I assume it was not something you really wanted. It was like it was fun, but you weren't like this is
uh this is like this feels right. No. What it felt like is oo I'm going to make get money. I'm going to get some
money. Yeah. Then something's wrong. Was like I was like this is good. I'm going to get money and I don't have to worry
about money. That's how I thought about it. And then when I was doing it I was like wow I'm so lucky. Like how did I stumble
on? I'm here with Phil Hartman. This is crazy. This is crazy, dude. Dave Foley and Steven Root, Laura
Tierney. Like this is nuts. Yeah, it was a crazy, right? No, it was Paul Sims.
Paul Sims, right? Yeah. Who had just left Larry Sanders show, right? So he left Larry. Yeah, it was crazy
luck. Just stupid dumb luck. That's right. Soren did that other show with Jeff Daniels, right? Yeah. It was
it was a lot of fun. Um, so but but back in those days like everybody was working
towards that and fortunately I already had that. So my thing was just like continue to work on standup and just
work on my standup and if this all goes away I'll just go back to being a comic and doing standup in LA.
Yes. Right. So and so that was new. That's Yeah. And that's where I encountered like the worst backstabbing I've ever
seen in my life. So you're coming from New York where you didn't feel that. You didn't feel it as much. Right. You know, you felt like a lot of [ __ ]
talking, but that was fun. You know, the guys would make fun of if you bombed, right? They were doing it to your face. Yeah. They were doing it to your face.
And it was a more like um it was just a more ball busting like silly environment in
New York. It wasn't No one thought they were going to get famous in New York. You know, they were all just doing sets.
But in LA, everybody had this idea to get a sitcom. And then in the 1990s, they started giving out development
deals. That was the big thing. You get like a $200,000 half a million dollar development deal and then all of a
sudden you have all this money and you're living and so everybody was working towards that. So it became
instead of like people working towards just being a standup, it became standup was a means to an end. And then all
these other people, they were in your way to get that goal. Jesus. And then your agent was telling you
that's what you had to do and every because they wanted that money too. So it was all like programming people to go after the sign. A completely different
culture in the standup community there. Exactly. But then that all went away. It all went away. Like this the idea of
working towards a sitcom is not it's like working towards a career in ham radio. Like [ __ ] went away.
Well, you say that Ari changed it. How did he do it? Cuz he brought the LA culture to New York. Ari moved from LA back to New York
and he I mean everybody that I talked to in New York is Ari's like, "You guys are doing it wrong." Like and people listen
to him. Yeah. Well, because he was established and he was a really good comic. And they were like, "Okay, I think he's right." Wow. And they would
come to they would come to LA, like a lot of guys like Andrew Schultz and a lot of these other guys, they would come to LA and they're like, "Bro,
everybody's so [ __ ] nice here." And they're all just having a great time. Like, why aren't we doing that? Why aren't we just having a great time? And
so, it shifted. It's just It was the culture of the internet. The internet changed
everything because there was no longer this one thing that a hundred guys were trying to audition for. Now it was
anybody could just put up something online and then you all your friends became assets. They all became like
valuable to you instead of competitors. That's cool. Yeah. Do you go up uh in these cities ever
now? I do if I'm in LA. I'll still do sets in LA. I haven't been in a while, but you know, most of the time I'm at my own
club, right? It makes it way also I have teenage kids and they're I I want to be home.
Did you do the seller? Yeah, I did the summer back in the day, but more I did I did The Stand. I did um Catch when it
was there. I did um uh I always did Dangerfields. Dangerfields was great
because it was like a hole in the wall. There was hardly anybody. Is that where he shot his special?
Yes. Wow. Yeah. It was big in the 80s and then something happened and by the time I got
there in the 90s, it was like [ __ ] dead. One time I went there and I had a spot at like um 8:30 and I don't
remember what time the show started, but there was a few people on before me and I got there and the people that were on before me were sitting at the bar. I go,
"What's going on?" Like, "There's no crowd." I'm like, "There's no crowd? There's nobody." And so then this couple
walked up and uh they bought tickets for the comedy show and and this guy Bobby who's the doorman like, "Step right up."
It was a Scottish guy. Come on in. I'll have you seated. He se he seats them down. There's no one there, just them.
They sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to Dangerfields. Your first act and we all did standup for two [ __ ]
people. Wow. Yeah. The whole night was two people and they had a great time. I'm sure
they But it was weird. It's like when you're doing standup for just two people, you're only looking at two people.
But you also realize how much of your act is [ __ ] How much of your act is like [ __ ] dance moves? It's just
nonsense. Like English on the Q ball. It's like you're doing a lot of silly things that like don't even and you
you're not connecting with real humans. And when there's two people there, it like cuts the fat out of all of your
[ __ ] and you recognize where the flaws in your writing are and the flaws in your delivery.
But Dangerfields was it was a wild little place. It was it was like a classic comedy club that
didn't have any no industry went there. No agents, no managers went there.
Always. Yeah. It was just like a bunch of weird degenerates and it was fun. Wow.
That was a fun place. So, I did that club a lot. But a lot of I did the road a lot.
Yeah. Because that was how I could make money and I could headline. Like I do an hour cuz if you're in the city, you're doing
15 minute sets or 10-minute sets. That's great, but it's hard to piece together an hour at a 10-minute sets
because you kind of want to let the material breathe and put it all together, compose it into one big thing.
And you really can work on that a lot more if you're actually headlining. Do you watch a lot of specials, comedy
specials nowadays? I don't. I watch a lot of comics like when I see them at the club, right? But not not like um
No, I probably should. I probably should watch more of them. But really, comedy
is it's like an artistic form of hypnosis. And the real way to see comedy
is to be there live because you're like and you know when the person's locked in and you know when they're not. You feel
it. They got you. Like they're thinking for you. Like if I'm watching a tell
and he's at like the mother ship and he's killing. Like we're all like this. We're like locked into his brain and
we're letting him like take us on a ride. It's like a kind of a form of hypnosis.
And I I really think that a standup special, as good as they are, you're maybe getting 60 to 70% of the
experience of actually being there. That's why I enjoy watching them to see how different people make them
because there's all different types. Yeah. You know, some are heavily edited, which always brings me out if there's a way to
keep it so you feel like you're in the room, right? You know, I remember was it Mr. Tambourine Man or the T the Chris Rock
special where when he changed the tone of it and he started talking about jerking off to porn and how he became
addicted to porn and it was that great uh filmmaker who uh who's a comedian who
does music. He did that thing during co when he was uh um in his house
Bo Burnham. Bo Burnham I think he directed it and the camera just keeps going on keeps going on. by the time you don't even
realize it cuz you're hypnotized. You're right here on Chris Rock. And I think probably subconsciously just thinking
about it now, that's probably one of the things cuz that's kind of the frame I use the whole time on Alex on Will.
But I remember watching that going like when the [ __ ] did this become a close-up, you know, but that's what that's what it was
happening. So there was there was a synergy between the camera and what he was doing in the place or at least made
me feel like cinematically I was there and this is what he was doing hypnotizing me.
Right. And then the opposite of that was the special that Chris Rock did where he changed clothes.
So he was doing a special where he filmed part of it in one place and another part of it in another place and
he spliced the two of them together with different outfits. So you would have him begin a bit with
one outfit on and then end a bit with a different outfit on and you're like what a whose idea was this?
Yeah. Because the minute you cut and edit in any way, you know, even podcast audio-wise, that's the thing I've
learned. You know, some people, you know, they edit the audio of a podcast and you're like, that's not someone didn't take a breath before they
answered. Oh, like cutting out in between. Yeah. It's it's a whole other rhythm, right? Well, that's the YouTube thing,
right? They YouTube for a long time was doing these things where they would cut out all the pauses in between people
talking thing and it became like a style of editing where it's like shocking. for my years like I it's impossible for me
to get in. It's it's just impossible. Well, it's it's the short attention span concept, right? You're you're just
saying people are so [ __ ] stupid. You can't give many breaks. You you can't give many breath. You got to keep talking. Keep talking. Keep talking. And then you and it's like it's
after a while it's just like this wash and Yeah. They're just trying to keep you engaged as much as possible by editing instead
of by having actually interesting content. Compelling content. Yeah. Yeah. But it's an interesting exercise. Yeah,
it's it's it's it's I I enjoy watch like I think Josh Safy did Sandler's one and
he and and he did all this backstage and he walked up and then he was in many locations, but he was playing music a
lot. Yeah. I just like watching everybody's different, you know, sort of exploration of different standup shows because it's such a huge viable market.
So people, you know, it's it's fun to watch how they do it. I think that's probably why because I watched so many of them, I wanted to do it in a way in a
movie. Have you done stand up at all? Never. Never did. No. Have you thought about it when you
were doing the film? Did you think about doing it? No. No. Yeah. And I don't know why, Joe. Yeah.
But no, I just It's not like one of those things that I feel um compelled to
do. Would it would it be fun? Would I be scared? All those things. Um will I try an open mic one night? Yeah, I probably
should. Um but it's not I didn't feel compelled to do it. No. The problem would be if you did it and it went okay,
but you're like, I think I could do better and then um and then you're gone.
You know me. I know everybody. It's kind of the same thing with all of us. Yeah, of course, dude.
There's always a party like I think I can do better. And then next thing you know, like I got to leave. I got to go do a set. Like what the [ __ ] are you
doing? Dad, I haven't eaten dinner. No, no, no. It's like all artistic pursuits, they
can become an obsession and they become an addiction and they become a part of you and then it's like your brain
naturally goes towards that pathway of thinking about that thing all day. Yeah. Which I love.
Oh, it's great if it's a fun thing. I remember being 11 and watching The Elephant Man and knowing at that moment.
You okay? Yeah. I'm sweating. Yeah. Just got to take this. Knowing at that moment that like, oh, this is what I want to do for the rest
of my life. when you saw The Elephant Man. Really? Yeah, I remember. Why was it that movie? I I mean, I don't know. I mean, I've
thought about it a lot obviously. Um, first was David Lynch directed it. I remember the scene Anthony Hopkins. I
loved film. So, I always loved film. My dad loved film, but it wasn't like a conscious thing where I was like, "This
is it." And I remember, you know, in my living room, it's on the TV. I saw all the movies on the TV. You know, I never
saw Apocalypse Now in a movie theater or Godfather or anything. willing the longest runner, you know, none none none
of it. It was all on the television and um but I was watching The Elephant Man. It was on HBO. It came through
Philadelphia where I live, Comcast, and they would show like it all the time. And it was Anthony Hopkins coming in and
he's seeing Joseph Merrick, the Elephant Man, for the first time. And the way David Lynch shot it, you only see his
shadow. And then Hopkins starts crying. And I don't know, I was just like, I was there in that cellar with him. And I was
like I forgot it was in the living room and then the whole movie was like that and I it came out I was like I just want
I want that. So was that like the first seed that was planted? Yeah, that was it. It was the first and
only it was I was 11. It was like it was like bam. It was like a shot.
This is a scene right here. So this right it's right. It's this is it.
Oh, look how young Anthony Hopkins looks.
Yeah, he was a crow. Stand up. Stand up.
Turn around. Turn around. Turn around.
[Music]
[Music]
Wow. Wow. That was it.
Yeah. Wow. What is it like watching that now? Like
Yeah. Thinking that that planted a seed that changed your whole life. I'm like, well, first I thought, wasn't it a shadow? But
that was before. And then I'm like, oh, yeah. And then Yeah. Then I was just in it. Then all of a sudden I was there. Then I was like, is Joe in it? Does he
know what I'm talking about? And then all and then as my brain started going, the movie kept bringing me in it.
Yeah. And then then by the end, by that push in, I was like, I'm just watching this guy look at this thing for the first time. And then [ __ ] look at this beast,
Anthony Hopkins. I wonder what he was looking at when he was crying. I know. You know, because pull that out of your
eyeballs. Oh, dude. And I wrote So I went to grad school and moved to New York. wrote him a letter because our dean said somehow
he knew him or he I the the school I went to that I only got into because they let anybody in.
Um they did that show inside the actor studio. Do you remember that on TV on Broadway? Do you remember that? And so our thesis
was the show. There was like our our not like our there was a class that but it was a class like technically a class
and so all these incredible people would come on and Anthony Hopkins was there and and I was there for that and then I
wrote him a letter just telling him and I asked uh James Lipton that was his name the dean. Yeah.
And uh and then then you know and then never you know I never heard from him ever and then um you know and now I know
him dude. Do you know what I'm saying? weird, bro. It's crazy. It's so weird, right?
I never get over that. Me neither. Meeting ever. Ever. And there's some guys I don't know if
you feel this way too, but like there's some guys like then they become your friends, but still I still feel a little
bit of like extra energy when I'm around them. Like it'll never go away, right? Yeah, for sure.
It's crazy. For me, one of the big ones was Tarantino. Like hanging out with Tarantino. It's so odd going to dinner
with him. Hanging out with him here. Him coming to the club, he come hang out hang out in the green room.
That's nuts. It's just weird. It's like that's Quinton Tarantino. Yeah, that's Yeah. And it never goes
away. As close as you get and as even when your brains off, right? Cuz that's always the lipness. Is my brain off when I'm with the person, right?
That's like when like Okay. Right. And even like Clint Eastwood who I did American Sniper with.
I mean, it was always Clint Eastwood. I got to a point where my brain was off, you know, but still I'm just like, what?
If my dad was alive? If my dad was alive, he would flip the [ __ ] out.
What was it like doing that scene with the fake baby? Was that weird? It's so funny. I was just talking about that two days ago, dude. And you know,
I've come full circle. I actually think it's dope. Really?
I think it's [ __ ] dope because it's so just like, wow, look at these people
fully invested and it's a doll. like a scene where you're like kind of
like moving the hand a little bit with your I can tell you I could tell you the whole thing, dude. So, we had three sets
of uh twins and uh Clinton likes to shoot fast, which I love and love. And they were
crying and they weren't ready and he was like, "You know what? Let's just uh let's put let's put the doll in." And I
was like, "Okay." And I was like, "All right." And and and I have the doll. And I remember and I made a joke on set and
I was like I was like uh I just saved you 35 grand cuz I moved his his uh his hand with my thumb,
you know, like I saved visual effects like 50 grand like made a joke about it and then we got to post and we were in
Vancouver uh at the doing the meeting but you know everybody defers to the boss and I still remember being in a in
a room and I'm like a theater we're watching and they're like okay Clint so we did this and uh you know the tank has
dirt on it and you know whatever visual effects they had And we get to the baby,
they're like, "Okay, Clint, this is uh this scene and it ends." And I'm literally behind Clint. I just see the
back of his head. And I'm waiting for everybody to raise their hand. Like, "We got to spend more money the
kid real." And uh I think the kid had like two fingers, too. Like they weren't even It was like an A. Yeah, that's it.
It is. Yeah, that's it. That's me. I'm doing that. That's it.
But dude, it's kind of dope. I love it. Now I've come full circle. So So and I
raised my hand and I was like, "Clint, I just think that it's clear, you know, that that's not a baby and what would do
we can we at least just find out what the cost would be?" And no one and no one said anything. And then I remember
he was like, "I think I think we move on." Wow. And that was it, dude. And that was it.
And I was like, "Okay, okay." And I remember talking to the other producer. I was like, "This is going to come
back." I was like, "Bro, this is going to come back to haunt us." And I remember he said, "No, Bradley, you're too close to
the movie." I was like, "I don't think so, dude." No. Everybody was like, "He's moving his thumb. This is crazy. That's a rubber
baby." Crazy, dude. There's another one, too. When like a Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's crazy. What is it like doing a film like
that where you're playing an actual human being? Is that is that different
than a like a written character that has no physical body that you you you can
kind of become who you think the words represent? Yeah. But when you're playing a guy like Chris
Kyle, you're you're playing a human. Yeah. And you're trying to figure out a way to
make it as realistic as possible, but your acting is like, what is that like?
I mean, the the thing that just popped my head is the pressure is is it's like night and day because there are people
that you have to um serve, you know, especially with Chris
Kyle. We started making that movie. He was alive. He got killed while we were he was still
negotiating with Warner Brother. I think he we just closed his deal and then he was murdered on February 2nd, I believe.
And uh and it was just like whoa. And um and then but in fact we were like now we
really got to make this movie. And um and then Clint and I flew to Midlotheian, Texas and met with his
family and his widow and his parents and then the kids. And I had played I play I did the Elephant Man. I did as a play in
my thesis in grad school and then I did it at Williamstown and then I actually did it in New York and London. So, and that and even though it's a long time
ago, that was the first time I felt that responsibility because I actually loved that guy, Joseph Merrick, and I did and
I felt that responsibility to him. So, I had done something like that before. But this was the first this was the next
time. It was massive, Joe. But I think that that it's like you're always looking for
what's the fuel that's going to allow me to work as hard as I can. And the fuel when you're playing a real person is
like there's like four extra canisters or like vats of firepower for you to
work hard because you just, you know, you're looking across at the eyes of somebody say, "I'm going to serve your son or
your husband or your father." It's a major responsibility, maybe even more major because he's now
he's deceased. Yeah, it was it was it was mindblowing. Um but and it terrified me. And also
like I'm 185 lbs at that point from northeast Philadelphia. This guy's from
Midlotheian, Texas, Sealed Team 3. You know, it's like how and and the way Clint works, the way we did work, you
know, Kevin Lace, who was a SEAL team 3 with Chris was in the movie. He played Dober. Jacob Shiko was one tribe, which
is what I'm wearing. He was a Marine that and Did you ever see American Sniper? Yes. Yeah. There's that scene where he goes
to the hospital and there's all the guys that have been wounded. Jacob Shik is one of them, you know. So, there's real guys. It's all real. So, I step in, you
know, I've got to I I'm gonna die unless I believe I'm Chris,
right? Like, so I have to do whatever I can so that I believe I'm Chris. If I believe
I'm Chris, then I have a shot at everybody else potentially going along
with this illusion. I just have to I have to be absolutely fearless when I walked on set. So I just it just made me
work so hard that I had never worked hard that if it's a created character
you know it's it's different but it comes with a different set of challenges you know it depend it just depends on what it is but I do know and then with
Leonard Bernstein he did the same thing huge responsibility like massive that I felt right
to his kids right to people that loved him um but but ma mainly his kids all three his son has
passed away since but his three kids are like okay you know they're like handing you you know So it's like if someone
went to your daughter in 12 years and said, "Here's this movie about your father." Do you know what I mean?
Yeah. You know, and and this guy's sitting across and be like, "Okay, I'm going to play your father." That's just a whole
other thing because the truth is like if it's good, it's going to last a long time and it's
going to be a thing that marks their journey, right? So I'm a part of whatever little part of
Chris's journey. So you give somebody you the faith that whoever has the power to give to that artist is just you know
so it just made me work you know like you just you just don't stop working till you get to the point where you believe you're him or you believe that
he's a part of you something's working. Did you meet Chris Kyle? Never just talked to him on the phone once.
Oh wow. Yeah. So what did you like what did you train
like what did you do to try to like Yeah. Well here's it's interesting right? It's like, well, I couldn't do anything that would ever achieve what he
achieved. But it's like, what can I do to look like a master, right? So,
there's three weapons, the 338, Leau, the 50 cal, the uh the uh rifle. It's
like, what can I do? How much time do I have? And I had like six months. Also, luckily, we're the same shoe size, same
age. He has a hole in his ear. I do. You find things that like, you know, uh same
height. I was like, "Oh, this is this is great." Uh, and then I just like, but he's 238 pounds. So, the first thing was 6,000
calories a day. Found a trainer and just 6,000. Yeah. 6,000 calories a day. You
first I did it with real food and that was a big mistake because I couldn't get up. I remember
the first week I did it had an incredible chef and and and then I would I couldn't get up. Like I couldn't move
like I couldn't move my stomach. So then we I think we split like half of it into protein shakes, but it was still 6,000
calories. You say you couldn't get up like what do you mean? My stomach wasn't able to process that much food.
Yeah. Whatever whatever happened I could just getting blocked. Getting blocked like major pain like I was giving birth or something. What I
would imagine. So then we changed it and it would be like huge meal shake. Huge
meal shake. Worked out twice a day. Five. I had three rest days, no cardio.
It was all about strength training like and then and it was all focused around deadlifting. Oh, okay. And uh it was this guy Jason
Walls who I worked with and um and I did that. Yes. It would be like Monday t Monday 5:30 a.m. and then a 4:30 p.m. or
like 3:30 Monday Tuesday rest Wednesday Thursday Friday rest Saturday Sunday and
did that. And I got up to 238 pounds. And a lot of it was like because I was thinking about him, his neck and my so I
gained like I would do all these all the neck stuff and it was his shoulders like I just wanted so you could shoot over
and it's like you know which we did all the time in the movie where the guy's just you know Chris. Yeah. NFL playoffs.
Let's go. DraftKings Sports Book. An official sports betting partner of the NFL makes every moment feel bigger. A
running back cuts through the line. A strip sack flips the field. A tight end hauls in the kind of touchdown grab
you'll talk about for years. Postseason games shift fast. And with DraftKings live betting options, you can stay right
in the moment. Plus, DraftKings has your back with early exit protection. If the player in your eligible NFL prop bet
goes down at any point in the first half, you still get paid in cash. New
customers bet just $5. And if the bet wins, you get 300 in bonus bets
instantly. DraftKings Sportsbook. Every drive, every play, every moment.
Download the DraftKings Sportsbook app now and use the code Rogan. That's code Rogan to turn five bucks into 300 in
bonus bets if your bet wins. In partnership with DraftKings, the crown is yours. Gambling problem? Call 1800
gambler. In New York, call 8778 wire or text hope.
In Connecticut, call 888789-777 or visit ccpg.org. on behalf of Bootill
Casino and Resort in Kansas. Pass through of per wager tax may apply in Illinois. 21 and over. Age and eligibility varies by jurisdiction void
in Ontario. Restrictions apply. Bet must win to receive bonus bets which expire in 7 days. Minimum odds required. For
additional terms and responsible gaming resources, see dkg.co/audio. Limited time offer.
Um, how much weight did you gain? I went from 185 to 238. Whoa. Yeah. And all naturally, cuz I cancer's
in my family. I've had skin cancer and like I'm terrified of anything. So I was like not going to do that. Um, so you
know, you take creatine or anything? I took creatine. Yeah. Which, by the way, I just started again like three
months ago. Oh, it's amazing, dude. I'm on this push-up thread with a bunch of dads at my school and we do a
100 push-ups a day and if we don't, you have to pay $10 into a pool and then when we get to 800, we go to Chinatown.
I'll have a meal with the money. And then I started taking creatine like two and a half months ago. And uh, we just
upped it to 150. I was like, "This is cuz I could only do and we like YouTube the perfect push-up, which I didn't know, which is like a whole other
world." Uh, and then now it's it's I mean, creatine is incredible. It's incredible for your brain as well.
I know. I've I've heard you say that. Like I can't tell that because I also take Zins all the time. So, it's like I don't know what's doing it.
Yeah, me too. I do the same thing. Um, but but um yeah, where was I on the
Chris thing? You were talking about gaining weight and Oh, yeah. So then I worked with and I worked with the guy who So it was
doing that in conjunction with um learning about sniping and uh working with Kevin Lac's guy
Dober. We would go up to the Disney ranch and work with like 600 yard head targets prone that I would just do all
the time. And then we then once we cast the rest of the team we did all this stuff. But really Kevin Lace, this guy
Dober was the guy cuz he was there and he was there through the whole shooting just so everything would be real. And we
just drilled it. we became a group like you know we did the work but it wasn't so much about like I was like I have this amount of time doing
like SEAL boot camp will do nothing for me like like that that'll just give me the brain like how hard this is and will I
be broken I've done not that I couldn't have not maybe I would have been broken but I felt like I do understand that
like I've been through certain things where like I understand what it's like to push myself to be on my breaking
point and what that looks like and feels like. What I don't know is when I'm looking at a target and I have to factor
in the, you know, the curve of the earth, you know, like that's the stuff I want to learn. Yeah.
Um, so that's where I focused was those three weapons, you know, live rounds gaining the weight. So I felt like I was
with Here we go. We're back. Um, that's like all of a sudden you're like, "Oh, you didn't take the drug."
You know what I'm saying? Um like no I'm not on it. Um and then
and then so it was those two things in conjunction. The curve of the earth is nuts to think about that. It's crazy.
Long distance stayed up 24 hours would pee in there, you know, never get up to pee, just pee
right there, right in the room, you know? I mean, I said no. And then by the way, it's a human be. I mean, it's just
Yeah, forget it. Um and then just working with this guy Tim Monik on like his voice to me. It's
all the voice is everything. It's all about the voice and like where he's from. And Chris was interesting because his accent started to change, you know,
because he once he got out and then he did that um he did a couple of shows, you know, he wrote that book which is
how I came across and then gave it to Clint. Um so he had an interesting accent that
kind of changed a little bit. Um but yeah, just the voice just hitting the voice. I would work this guy five days a
week, you know, you know, and I had I had tons of stuff. I had so much information that TA Kyle had been so
generous to give me so many home videos, you know, correspondence, you know, I
had I used to work out to his which I just did the other day. I hadn't It's so funny we're talking about this. I literally just did it two days ago. Um
worked out to his playlist. I had both of his workout playlists. Oh wow. And I and I and I blew up two huge
posters and one was him just like this and one with his gun. And I would do that and look at him every morning. It
was just like this beautiful ritual that I felt like I was with him every day. How long did you take to prepare?
I I I'd have to look back. I think I I did it fast, but I think we had about 6 months or 5 months, but like, you know,
full on that's it. Nothing else. I didn't have a kid back then. It was like that was it. Yeah. Yeah.
That's There's There's something very unique about someone doing a film about an actual person. Yeah. Like a great
actor doing like Dairo when he played Jake Lamada, Raging Bull, of course. like that. That was one of
the first like I mean he became a different person. Yeah. Yeah. You have to
Yeah. You have to there's like a merging of you and that whatever that idea the soul whatever of the person it sounds so
hokey you know I get it but if you ask me what my memory is of of making a
sniper like memory like on in scenes it's not that like I was acting
it's just that's not my memory. What is the memory of like, okay, now we're going to do this and it's like me as him doing it.
Wow. You know, that's that's Was that a mind [ __ ] when you stop when like the movie?
Well, the good thing is you do a Clint who takes the piss out of [ __ ] everything. Oh, does he? Yeah. So, we would go to dinner at night
and uh and I learned from Christian Bale and American Hustle like he just stayed in because I didn't understand this stay
in the character all the time. You know, you hear these stories but you don't know what the real is. Like how does that work? You see a cell phone, do you like lose your mind? like how do you
what is it? How do you do it? And Bale it's like oh I overthought it. Bale would just stay. He was played this
character that's from New York in in American Hustle and I'd go in there the first day I met him he was his accent
and the rest of the movie even like on weekends it was the it was him Christian and I could we would talk about stuff
and his kid but he would just speak in that voice and I was like oh it's that simple like
it's not some big thing like once you get the voice that is weird you know but I took it I mean and it's
wonderful because then you feel like you're not acting and you're in the voice and I do it all like so so I would
be in that voice of Chris for the whole movie and then we would go to like a restaurant when we were like up in Lancaster shooting or something and
Clint would then make fun of me in my accent as Chris and order a steak and it was just it was it was great. Yeah,
he's [ __ ] sabotaging your performance. He's making you self-conscious. That's crazy.
It was awesome. That's crazy. I I always wondered what it's like to be around someone who's like method whether
it I don't know that's I wouldn't you know method is also a term that you know what does it mean? Well, the method what
hap it started in Russia, right? And then uh um you know that book uh on acting that I should know um you know
what's his name? He came and then the group theater started and it was like you know and all
these people then disband and there's Harry Meisner and there's Yeah. Stannislovski. Exactly. And there was
this other guy Vangov that also talked about uh that every rehearsal. It's very interesting. I read all this in grad
school and then the group theater came in and then Elilia Kazan was a huge part
of it becoming popular because you had this guy that was sweeping floors of the actor studio and then started directing plays and then all of a sudden he's a
huge movie director and he's putting Marlon Brando who was part of the actor studio starring in his movies you know
and and he's doing and so it all just sort of erupted but then it branched out and so there's people that are dogmatic
about it about it's only using you're, you know, you're substituting. So if I'm doing a scene with you, like you aren't
you, you're my brother, you know, right? But but but it's evolved into it's like what works for you. To me, it's like you
use your your own experience plus your imagination, you know? But that's that's the sort
that's the you know, sort of a very layman's 50-second uh you know telling of what the origin
of the method is. But I went to the actor studio which is based in the method. That's where I went to grad school.
Um is it And it's very valuable cuz I didn't know [ __ ] before that. I mean, I I did a couple of plays at Georgetown. I
didn't know any I mean, I just loved acting, but I didn't do anything about it. I was terrified as a kid. Like, we
did this thing in high school where we had to as seniors, we would put on our show where we would make fun of our teachers. And I like I could do my Latin
teacher, Mr. Burke. I was like, and I actually sang in it. We sang and I was like, but I was terrified, Joe, for the
whole year. Sleepless nights for a year leading up to it. That's how scared I was in public. I remember doing like a
fifth grade presentation with the poster boards about lock and hobs and the poster shaking so hard because I was
because I was so nervous. I was like how am I going to what's this fear thing? Isn't that weird? I know. But then in college I did a
couple of plays but I still didn't know what I was doing but I loved it and I was like little stuff. I was like Azilon
the server in Dangerous Liaons. But I still remember like I closed the door in a rhythm rhythmic way and people laughed
and I remember I was like I was this feels good and then and then so I
applied to grad school there and then all of a sudden it was like I got a huge
foundation of like what I could do. You know that your insecurities are actually your attributes, your fears are stuff
that you know all this thing that you you're a sensitive kid. This is all good stuff. And I never felt that way before
about any of that. And I had this teacher, Elizabeth Kemp, who was incredible, who then passed away in my house years
later. She got sick. Yeah. Crazy. Passed away in your house? Yeah. In Venice, California. She was sick. So, we put her hospice there. But,
um, she was incredible. And she did this basic technique class. And it was the first time ever because I didn't, you
know, grow up therapy or and none of that was even, you know, in the vicinity of talking about your feelings. you
know, my I loved my dad, but I grew up in, you know, the 80s in northeast Philadelphia with an Irish Italian
upbringing that wasn't part of the deal. And um and then all of a sudden in grad
school with other guys and women and we're like laying down and she wants us to go through an experience of loss and
betrayal when we were children, it's like what the [ __ ] And actually I could take all that stuff I've been ashamed of
and it I could use it and bring it into art. I don't know. It really clicked with me. Wow. In a huge way. Um, so and I use it even
to this day. All the movies I do, I I always get the actors together and do like a workshop for a week that's based
on dreams that she also taught me. And I just find it invaluable. Any way you can just how can I just get to a place where
we're just talking to each other and I don't you know what and that all this stuff I feel it's okay.
Right. Right. Yeah. When you're doing a guy like Chris, it must also be kind of easier to keep the
accent than to try to reestablish it right before every scene. You just said it. It's a logical thing.
Yeah, that's it. It's a logical thing. The idea of me talking with an accent or
even thinking that it's an accent because you don't think about it anymore. The whole point is I'm not doing an act. If I'm doing a scene with
you and I'm thinking about how I'm talking, it's over. It's a wrap. It's not real.
Right. But if I'm just talking to you and it it happens to be the voice that I've been working on for however long
time, then we're in it. We got a shot. And if I'm stopping it, there's no way I'm not thinking about
So yes, Joe, that is the reason. You know what's a really underappreciated talent is voice actors
who do audiobooks. I was watching a video of this guy cuz I never knew how
they did it and I kind of assumed that whenever they had to change accents,
they probably had a pause or they were did. But there's a there's a video of a
guy doing the voice over for Lord of the Rings, the Lord of the Rings audio book, and he goes into Smeaggel. He goes into
the Gollum character while he's doing narration. There's no break. He just smoothly transitions into [ __ ]
incredible. It is absolutely masterful and completely underappreciated.